# Git (Distributed Version Control System)
- Git is a system, and GitHub, GitLab are services utilzing the Git system.
- Manages versions/history of codes to make it easier to oversee the development process.
- Lets developers compare developmental changes between versions.
- Very useful tool for cooperation.

---

## Version Control
- Recording and tracking changes.
- Track differences between v1, v2, and so on.
- ex. Google Docs

---

## Centralized vs Distributed
- Centralized version control
    - ex. SVN
    - Disadvantages : When issues pop up in the point of control, the entire system may crash. (Backup necessary)
- Distributed version control
    - ex. Git
    - Disadvantages : Very important to sync developmental changes in the history.
    - Advantages of Distributed Version Controlling
        - Can easily work on same project simultaneously with other developers.
        - Can minimize developmental conflicts, and increase development productivity.
        - Can easily backup and restore files.
        - Can develop offline.
        - Can easily track change history, and sync local repository to the remote repository.

---

## Git Structure
### 1. Working Directory
- This is where the files you're working on are located.

### 2. Staging Area
- Files with changes and files to add to the next version will be added to the staging area with `git add` command. Area for preparing to commit changes.

### 3. Repository (repo)
- **All versions and change history are recorded**
    - Where version history and files are saved permanently.

---

### Commit(Saving versions)
- a.k.a "snapshot".
- When you commit, the staging automatically clears up.

---

## Git commands


### git init
- Initializes new Git repository.
- .git hidden folder created.
- Branch name : master
- Child directories are managed automatically.
- `git init` where you want to start controlling versions


### git add (file name)
- Moves changes from wd to staging area.


### git restore (file name)
- Undoing changes and going back to the latest committed version.
- `git restore --staged (file name)`
    - Retrieving files from staging area.


### git status
- Checking the status of your git work flow.
- <span style="color:red">Red : wd</span>
- <span style="color:green">Green : Staging Area</span>


### git commit
- Takes staged snapshot and commits to project history.
- Creates a version at the committing point.
- **Essential** : Very important to leave a message about the changes you've made. Be specific.
    - `git commit -m 'msg'`


### git diff
- Can show changes between versions, wd, remote repo.
- `git log --oneline`
    - Check commit hashcodes and messages in one line each.
- git diff hashcode
    - <span style="color:green">Green : Added</span>
    - <span style="color:red">Red : Deleted</span>


### gitignore
- File without filename extension. Create gitignore and type in the files/folders you don't intend to control by git.
- **MUST add in your first commit**(becomes complicated when not).


### git rm (file name)
- Command for deleting files/folders in remote and local repositories.
- `git rm --chached (file name)`
    - Only deletes files/folders in remote repository.

---

## Usual git workflow

### When you're starting a new project
1. git init
1. $ git config --global user.name "Your Name"
   $ git config --global user.email you@example.com
1. create gitignore file
1. make changes
1. git add
1. git status (not necessary, but recommended)
1. git commit -m 'msg'
1. git push origin master


### When you're pulling/cloning existing repositories

1. git clone (remote repo url)
   git pull origin master (origin/branch names may be different)
1. make changes
1. git add
1. git status
1. git commit -m 'msg'
1. git push origin master